---
title: All For Sugar 
---

Sugar can drive people to great lengths, at one time sugar was worth more than gold. In 1834 slavery was abolished in trinidad, entering in a new period indentureship, People would come from india under shady circumstances, and were sent to places like guyana, jamaica but mainly trinidad. They were worked hard for the sake of sugarcane. Though not all out slavery it was similar leading to strikes and even suicide and even though you can go to the west indies and taste the wonderful food, you can be reminded of the suffering of the people who came. 

Getting an indentureship was easy, getting out of it was the hard part. People were transported to places, and you had to pay for your passage by working. In india people were indentured and were taken across the ocean to the caribbean. Many of them didn't even know where they were going, some were told they were still in india, some were told they would be taken to a land of opportunities. What a surprise when they got there it must have been. 

At first sight the work at the plantation wouldn't seen any different then slavery. People were whipped, for not working hard enough. The days were long hard hours in the hot sun, the indians lived in barracks and were only allowed to leave the plantation when they had permission. Naturally with the cruelties there were usattissfied people, from 1880 - 1892, there was a multitude of strikes. Not to mention the amount of suicides that occurred. The strikes somewhat worked, they attracted the attention of people like ghandi, who campaigned for more humane treatment. Though there were alot of cruelties families were not separated and religion could be kept, meaning that the hindu religion still thrives today. Unlike the african slaves there no armed uprisings, but the east Indians managed to show their unhappiness. 

In the 1900s rules started to get lax, and people could leave more freely, and if you were married you didn't have to live on the plantation. Finally in 1917 indenturing was ended. The new ruling didn't have an effect like slavery did but you weren't forced to work. The indians were tricked many times into indentureship. The work was made up of long hours and hard work. Many gave up, while others fought on for more humane treatment. So even though there was much suffering the east indians fought on paving the way for the modern caribbean. 
