---
date: 2016-12-22T20:04:40.407Z
title: Our Silicon Youth
---
Imagine this picture. A child walks out of a store, in one hand is his mothers hand and in the other hand is a box of plastic metal and silicon otherwise known as a smartphone. This is becoming more and more an ever present scene in our society, parents giving young chilren smartphones. Some have very good reasons for doing this. Maybe they want to keep track of thier children by using the phones GPS, or maybe they want their children to be able to call them at any time, or some to keep their children occupied watching a movie or playing a game. Some parents even go far enough to say "It is Educational" . But is the smartphone as really innocent as we think it to be? Is having your child hooked up to the web , where he or she can be attcked by malicious software, or other unhealty information, something Parents are just ignoring? Or are we oblivious to the fact that giving our children acess to us, could lead to other people getting acess to them? With the rise of attention disorders is giving your children just another distraction a good thing? No I belive children, especially ones under thirteen should not have smartphones, they are a distactive malicious waste of time, energy and money. With the problems we are in with behavioural, attention, and disciplinary disorders, giving our children smartphones is like throwing them to the wind.

When I asked this question to parents, if kids under thirteen should have smartphone, they often talk about the communications benefit of it. “I like to get into communication with my child when he is away.” Indeedtaht is a good reson. being in contact with your child especially when he not a teen ager yet is something that is nesscary for childrens growth. So, why would he be away from you? And if he or she is always have them with a guardian that you know, and without the slightest shadow of a doubt in your mind that you trust. And if they must have a phone, by no means withold them from getting one, just not a smartphone." If all you use it for is calling in case of need or emergencies, why would you need something else than a simple phone with a simple plan? Others say, “I don’t let my children play video games at all.” (Usually with some gusto beind that statement). And then with a softer voice, "And if they do, it’s something learning or educational. The same goes with movies or shows, “Not at all!” They say, “I ONLY my children use the smartphone for watching childrens appropriate , and educational shows.” Reading has been proven time and time, over and over again to be the best form for eduacation! Sure, there are dozens and even hundreds of good websites, and facilites for education, but if your child is bored, the worst thing reading will do is teach him something.

Every day hundreds of peoples accounts get hacked. do we think that just because our children are children, hackers will not target them? the answer is no. Hackers do not care if your are old, young, or adult. Giving children smartphone exposes your child to a world of cyber-danger. Not to mention cyber bullying. Dozens of children each year commit suicide by reding insults posted by thier peers directed at them. Do you really want your child have to deal with this? If we are to protect our childrens identities, information and make sure that they are secure, smartphones is not going to do that! but what if instead of hackers coming to your child, your child goes to them? There are plenty of fake websites out on the internet that can fool your child to click on them. Like I said, children have no need of “smart” phones. They are too open and unsecure, and hackers can easily take thier information, and share it on the web.

Parents everyday complain how misbeahved their child is. They talk of how he or she won’t sit down, or how he won’t listen and, how their attention span is non existent. If you already deal with theese problems, the worst thing you can do, is give your child a smart phone. Attention does not improve with electronic devices. we really must understand that most of the attention disorders or behavioral problems come from videogames, and by giving your child a smartphone you open him up to a world of html games, app games, game forums, game groups, and other multimedia. I know the desperate parent really just wants to get their child out of their hair, so they give them a smartphone to keep them occupied for a while. If you are in this case, the best thing for your child is a book. It calms the mind, stimulates mental growth, and intead of opening your child up to games it will open your child to authors and more books, and worlds that he can explore though reading.

Smartphones are useful, simple, and are great ways to stay in contact with loved ones friends, and family. But not for children, especially under the age of thirteen. There are too many dangers from hackers who could take yor childs information. Malicious websites that your child could accidentaly go to. And smartphones are not going to me the solution to fixing your childs mental health and stamina. Instead we must look to other outlets and inlets that will help to grow our cildren, mainly books. And yes there may be plenty of learning sites that you could limit your child to, but in the end books help brains, and not phones. Imagine this picture, a child walks out of a store, in one hand his mothers hand, and in the other a book. This is the type of picture that I want to see in our world.

