---
title: An Look at 12 Angry Men
date: 3/5/19 10:38 AM
---

12  Angry Men is a classic example of how one man can pursuade a majority against all odds. But upon closer inspection one can see that Biblically certain things would not happen. But before we get into the problems, lets look at the plot.

The story begins with a tired looking judge breifing the jury on a murder that they have to make a descision about. Everyone suspects that a boy, we never find out his name, killed his father in his apartment. The boy got a lawyer, and eventhough we never see the trial, we find out that everyone agreed that he seemed disinterested in the case already assuming that it was a lost cause for the boy.

Our main charachter is the good looking justice seeking juror #8. When everyone goes to vote aginst the boy He is the only one who stands up and says the boy is innocent. He says he really doesn't know if the boy is innocent, but doesn't belive that the accused shoudln't be judged so quickly. This is where we start to see a clash of ideas. The loud salesman type juror #7 complians that he wish he could just get this over and done with and he's about to miss his baseball game. Others say that everyone knows the boy is guilty, and that this is simply a waste of time. Then the old and ready-to-die Juror #9 comes forward in support of #8. The main peice of evidence though is that the boy was said to have been seen by one lady through the window on a *passing train* stabbing the father, and heard by an old  man who lived down stairs screaming. "Im gonna kill you!" And hearing a thump on the ground, then watching the boy flee out the front door into the street.

Now notice the man only saw the boy *running* He did not see the boy commiting the murder. Now according to Biblical standards, this boy can not be accused of commiting the murder. Strictly speaking the boy was only **seen** by **one** person. Who then we later found out, wore glasses, had been sleeping, and only had a few seconds to see the boy actually do the killing. Clearly, Juror #8 argures, the witness could not of seen the boy kill the father from 60 feet away two stories up through a window on a passing train. Later, after much argument, the boy is aquitted.

Here I want to make a point from the veiw of another movie called **Beyond A Reasonable Doubt.**.
A man named Austin Spencer wants to prove that people shouldnot and cannot be tried just by using circumstantial evidence. So he sets up an elaborate plan with his friend Tom Garrett, when he finds out about a recent murder. He will plant very vauge circumstantial enidence pionting to Tom and when he gets tried, at the last moment he will reveal that is was all just an elaborate hoax. At first everything goes to plan, Tom gets tried and is found guilty of the murder. This is where My grievence comes in. The Bible states, that you cannot be found guilty of murder and put to death if you don't have any witnesses! Again we see, no witnesses and the person is about to go to jail. So the Tom get sent off to death row prison. Now later we find out he actually really did commit the murder when he slips up and ends up confessing... to *one* person. The Govenor who was about to give him a pardon stops and sends him back to prison to die. But again we see, under the circumstances, the man should not of been sent back to prison, because there was **only one person who said they heard his confession!** 

This is all not to say, that the person using the Bibles standards would of gotten away scot-free. Quite the opposite in fact. All I am saying is that using the judicial system of the U.S.A. As the man proved, you can get a death sentence, or a life sentence with a good prosecutor and some flimsy evidence. But obviously there are problems with our stories here. But personally I think that they were very well done, and I would recondmend both 12 Angry Men, and Beyond a Reasonable Doubt, to anyone interested in law, or just wants a good drama.
